:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::EDUCATION:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
EdUcAtIoN is which is useful in life and makes us productive and purposeful
True eduction doesn't mean acquring facts of science,history and art but in the
development of charcter.
The current position of eduction in our country cannot be  either useful or 
purposeful. India made so many activities to improve literacy rate i.e.,11% before
independence to 78% at present ,but it has unable to change the state of education.
India has celebrated 69 years of independence however in terms of education it remain 
in state of British mindset.In india schools , colleges& universities were continue 
to give importance to learning and writing which kills all imagination, creativity 
and originality .True eduction is that which is helpful for society ,Nations growth 
and development.Innovation,creativity ,oraginality can never came by writing or 
learning.Indian education tends to be fact and knowledge oriented and this methodology
kills the cognitive aspects of mind.
India government focus only fact based education but it ignores the types of value based 
education like SOCIAL,POLITICAL and MORAL education.
SOCIAL EDUCATION:
Social education requires a student to develop sensitivity towards the 
various communities that comprise a society.It requires  a person to develop the ability 
and respect for different castes,classes races and religions.
POLITICAL EDUCATION :
political education is required to stregthen democracy.If people were educated it would helpful
to political engegement and active citizenship and poltical involvement.
MORAL EDUCATION:
The education which analyses the personality,moral activities and the development of the every 
individual in every aspects of life.It helps to develop honesty,truthfullness,kindness.It is used 
to decrease the various ills in society.
we also give importance to physical education because healthy body is a key to healthy mind.



we change our approach of foucsing on QUANTITY and move towards focusing on QUAlITY of education.
True education is which transforms individuals into moral agents.
we implement a new way of education which is LEARN AS YOU WORK("vocational training")
we need to go back to producing great thinkers like kautilya scientists like Aryabhatta and c.v.raman
and social scientists like amartyasen to take the country to higher and higher level of excellence...............


 